[Fixes #8789] Doc for Authentication for Single Page Applications (#11205)
aspnet/Docs: aspnetcore/security/authentication/identity-api-authorization.md

---
title: Introduction to authentication for Single Page Applications on ASP.NET Core
author: 
description: Use Identity with a single page application hosted inside an ASP.NET Core app.
ms.author: 
ms.date: 02/28/2018
uid: security/authentication/identity/spa
---

# Authentication and authorization for SPAs

In ASP.NET 3.0 we are introducing support for authentication in single page applications using our new support for API authorization. This support is based on a combination of ASP.NET Core Identity for authenticating and storing users and Identity Server for implementing Open ID Connect.

We have added a new authentication parameter to our Angular and React templates that is similar to the authentication parameter in our mvc and razor pages templates with allowed values 'None' and 'Individual'.

> ## Creating an Angular application with API authorization support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create an Angular app with API authorization support
```

> To create a new angular application with support for authenticating and authorizing users we need to open the command line, navigate to the folder where we want to create the project and run the command below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new Angular app with support for authentication and authorization of users, open a command shell and run the following command:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```console
```

> dotnet new angular -au Individual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dotnet new angular -o <output_directory_name> -au Individual
```

```

> This will create an ASP.NET Core application with a ClientApp folder where our angular application will live.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceding command creates an ASP.NET Core app with a *ClientApp* directory containing the Angular app.
```

> ## Creating a React application with API authorization support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a React app with API authorization support
```

> To create a new react application with support for authenticating and authorizing users we need to open the command line, navigate to the folder where we want to create the project and run the command below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new React app with support for authentication and authorization of users, open a command shell and run the following command:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```console
```

> dotnet new react -au Individual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dotnet new react -o <output_directory_name> -au Individual
```

```

> This will create an ASP.NET Core application with a ClientApp folder where our react application will live.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceding command creates an ASP.NET Core app with a *ClientApp* directory containing the React app.
```

> ## General description of the ASP.NET Core components of the application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## General description of the ASP.NET Core components of the app

```

There are several additions to the project when we include support for authentication:

> ### Startup class

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Startup class

```

Now that we've seen the main components of the solution, we can take a specific look at individual scenarios for the application:

## Requiring authorization on a new API
The system is configured out of the box to make it trivial to require authorization for new APIs. In order to do so, simply create a new controller and add the `[Authorize]` attribute to the controller class or to any action within the controller.

## Protecting a client-side route (Angular)
Protecting a client side route is done by adding the authorize guard to the list of guards to run when configuring a route. As an example you can see how the fetch-data route is configured within the main app angular module:

```ts
RouterModule.forRoot([
  // ...
  { path: 'fetch-data', component: FetchDataComponent, canActivate: [AuthorizeGuard] },
])
```

It is important to mention that protecting a route doesn't protect the actual endpoint (which still requires an `[Authorize]` attribute applied to it) but that it only prevents the user from navigating to the given client side route when it is not authenticated.

> ## Authenticating API requests (Angular)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Authenticate API requests (Angular)

```

Authenticating requests to APIs hosted along side the application is done automatically through the use of the HTTP client interceptor defined by the application.

> ## Protecting a client-side route (React)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Protect a client-side route (React)

```

Protecting a client side route is done by using the AuthorizeRoute component instead of the plain Route component. As an example you can see how the fetch-data route is configured within the App component:

```jsx
<AuthorizeRoute path='/fetch-data' component={FetchData} />
```

It is important to mention that protecting a route doesn't protect the actual endpoint (which still requires an `[Authorize]` attribute applied to it) but that it only prevents the user from navigating to the given client side route when it is not authenticated.

> ## Authenticating API requests (React)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Authenticate API requests (React)

```

Authenticating requests with react is done by first importing the `authService` instance from the `AuthorizeService` and then retrieving the access token from the authService and attaching it to the request as shown below. In react components this is typically done in the componentDidMount lifecycle method or as the result from some user interaction.

> ### Importing the authService into your component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Import the authService into your component

```

```js
import authService from './api-authorization/AuthorizeService'
```

> ### Retrieving and attaching the access token to the response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Retrieve and attach the access token to the response

```

```js
async populateWeatherData() {
  const token = await authService.getAccessToken();
  const response = await fetch('api/SampleData/WeatherForecasts', {
    headers: !token ? {} : { 'Authorization': `Bearer ${token}` }
  });
  const data = await response.json();
  this.setState({ forecasts: data, loading: false });
}
```

> ## Deploying into production

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploy into production

```

In order to deploy the application into production we need to provision several resources:
* A database to store the Identity user accounts and the identity server grants.
* A production certificate to use for signing tokens.
  * There are no specific requirements for this certificate; it can be a self-signed certificate or a certificate provisioned through a CA authority.
  * It can be generated through standard tools like powershell or openssl.
  * It can be installed into the certificate store on the target machines or deployed as a pfx file with a strong password.

> ### Example: Deploying into Azure Websites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example: Deploy into Azure Websites

```

In this section we are going to deploy the application to Azure websites using a certificate stored in the certificate store. We need to modify the application to load a certicate from the certificate store. To do so, our app service plan needs to be at least on the standard tier when we configure in a later step. In our application we simply need to modify the IdentityServer section on appsettings.json to include the key details:
```json
  "IdentityServer": {
    "Key": {
      "Type": "Store",
      "StoreName": "My",
      "StoreLocation": "CurrentUser",
      "Name": "CN=MyApplication"
    }
  }
}
```
* The name property on certificate corresponds with the distinguished subject for the certificate.
* The store location represents where to load the certificate from (CurrentUrser or LocalMachine).
* The store name represents the name of the certificate store where the certificate is stored, in this case it points to the personal user store.

> In order to deploy to Azure Websites we first deploy the application following the steps in: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/tutorials/publish-to-azure-webapp-using-vs?view=aspnetcore-2.2#deploy-the-app-to-azure to create all the resources needed on Azure and deploy the aplication to production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy to Azure Websites, deploy the app following the steps in [Deploy the app to Azure](xref:tutorials/publish-to-azure-webapp-using-vs#deploy-the-app-to-azure) to create the necessary Azure resources and deploy the app to production.
```

> After doing this, the application is deployed into Azure but is not yet completely functional as we still need to setup the certificate to be used by the application. To do so, we need to have the thumbprint for the certificate we are going to use and follow the steps described in https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/app-service-web-ssl-cert-load#load-your-certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After doing this, the application is deployed into Azure but is not yet completely functional as we still need to setup the certificate to be used by the application. To do so, we need to have the thumbprint for the certificate we are going to use and follow the steps described in [Load your certificates](/azure/app-service/app-service-web-ssl-cert-load#load-your-certificates).
```
